docs/source/usage.rst, before:

Usage
=====

Get items
---------

The PyGADM lib can be used to extract information from the GADM dataset as GeoPandas :code:`GeoDataFrame`.

countries
^^^^^^^^^

Using the :code:`get_items` methods, you can access an administrative area using either its name or its GADM identification code. 

For exemple to extract the France geometry you can use the following code:

.. jupyter-execute::

    import pygadm 
    from ipyleaflet import GeoJSON, Map, basemaps

    gdf = pygadm.get_items(name="France")

    # display it in a map 
    data = gdf.__geo_interface__
    style = {"color": "red", "fillOpacity": .4}

    m = Map(basemap=basemaps.Esri.WorldImagery,  zoom=5, center=[46.21, 2.21])
    m.add(GeoJSON(data=gdf.__geo_interface__, style=style))
    

    m

If you know the code of the area you try to use, you can use the GADM code instead of the name.

.. jupyter-execute:: 

    import pygadm 
    from ipyleaflet import GeoJSON, Map, basemaps

    gdf = pygadm.get_items(admin="FRA")

    # display it in a map 
    data = gdf.__geo_interface__
    style = {"color": "red", "fillOpacity": .4}

    m = Map(basemap=basemaps.Esri.WorldImagery,  zoom=5, center=[46.21, 2.21])
    m.add(GeoJSON(data=gdf.__geo_interface__, style=style))

    m

smaller admin levels
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

One is not bind to only request a country, any level can be accesed using both names and/or GADM code. 

.. jupyter-execute:: 

    import pygadm 
    from ipyleaflet import GeoJSON, Map, basemaps

    gdf = pygadm.get_items(name="Corse-du-Sud")

    # display it in a map 
    data = gdf.__geo_interface__
    style = {"color": "red", "fillOpacity": .4}

    m = Map(basemap=basemaps.Esri.WorldImagery, zoom=8, center=[41.86, 8.97])
    m.add(GeoJSON(data=gdf.__geo_interface__, style=style))

    m

.. warning::

    The names of countries are all unique but not the smaller administrative layer. If you request a small area using name, make sure it's the one you are looking for before running your workflow. If it's not the case, use the :code:`get_names` method to get the admin assosciated names.

content of an admin layer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

using the :code:`content_level` option, one can require smaller administrative layer than the one setup in the name. For example when you request France, by setting up the :code:`content_level` option to 2, the geodataframe will include all the department geometries.

.. jupyter-execute:: 

    import pygadm 
    from ipyleaflet import GeoJSON, Map, basemaps

    gdf = pygadm.get_items(admin="FRA", content_level=2)

    # display it in a map 
    data = gdf.__geo_interface__
    style = {"color": "red", "fillOpacity": .4}

    m = Map(basemap=basemaps.Esri.WorldImagery,  zoom=5, center=[46.21, 2.21])
    m.add(GeoJSON(data=gdf.__geo_interface__, style=style))

    m

find names
----------

To get the available name and GADM code in a administrative layer you can use the :code:`get_names` method with the same parameters. Use then these names in a :code:`get_items` request to get the geometry.

For example to the the name and codes of all the departments in France you can run: 

.. jupyter-execute:: 

    import pygadm

    pygadm.get_names(admin="FRA", content_level=2)

Google Earth engine
-------------------

Transform gdf into ``ee.FeatureCollection``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you want to use this lib with GEE, install the "earthengine-api" package in your environment and then run the following code:

.. jupyter-execute::

    import pygadm
    import geemap
    import ee 
    from ipyleaflet import basemaps, ZoomControl

    ee.Initialize()

    gdf = pygadm.get_items(name="Corse-du-Sud")

    # transform into an ee.FeatureCollection
    fc = ee.FeatureCollection(gdf.__geo_interface__)

    # in this example we use geemap to display the geometry on the map
    # the map is customized to have the same look & feel as the rest of the documentation
    m = geemap.Map(scroll_wheel_zoom=False, center=[41.86, 8.97], zoom=8, basemap=basemaps.Esri.WorldImagery)
    m.clear_controls()
    m.add(ZoomControl())
    m.addLayer(fc, {"color": "red"}, "FRA")

    m

Simplify geometry
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The GADM dataset are describing the geometry of administrative areas in High-resolution. This may overload the authorized importation limits of earthengine which will lead to the following error: 

.. code-block:: console

    EEException: Request payload size exceeds the limit: 10485760 bytes.

Use the :code:`simplify` method from GeoPandas (more informations `here <https://geopandas.org/en/stable/docs/reference/api/geopandas.GeoSeries.simplify.html>`__) to downscale the resolution of the geometries. The following example is needed if you want to work with France: 

.. jupyter-execute:: 

    import pygadm
    import geemap
    import ee 
    from ipyleaflet import basemaps, ZoomControl

    ee.Initialize()

    gdf = pygadm.get_items(name="France")

    # reduce resolution
    gdf.geometry = gdf.geometry.simplify(tolerance=.001)

    # transform into an ee.FeatureCollection
    fc = ee.FeatureCollection(gdf.__geo_interface__)

    # in this example we use geemap to display the geometry on the map
    # the map is customized to have the same look & feel as the rest of the documentation
    m = geemap.Map(scroll_wheel_zoom=False, center=[46.21, 2.21], zoom=5, basemap=basemaps.Esri.WorldImagery)
    m.clear_controls()
    m.add(ZoomControl())
    m.addLayer(fc, {"color": "red"}, "FRA")

    m

Commit message:

fix: remove execution of gee cells

docs/source/usage.rst, after:

Usage
=====

Get items
---------

The PyGADM lib can be used to extract information from the GADM dataset as GeoPandas :code:`GeoDataFrame`.

countries
^^^^^^^^^

Using the :code:`get_items` methods, you can access an administrative area using either its name or its GADM identification code. 

For exemple to extract the France geometry you can use the following code:

.. jupyter-execute::

    import pygadm 
    from ipyleaflet import GeoJSON, Map, basemaps

    gdf = pygadm.get_items(name="France")

    # display it in a map 
    data = gdf.__geo_interface__
    style = {"color": "red", "fillOpacity": .4}

    m = Map(basemap=basemaps.Esri.WorldImagery,  zoom=5, center=[46.21, 2.21])
    m.add(GeoJSON(data=gdf.__geo_interface__, style=style))
    

    m

If you know the code of the area you try to use, you can use the GADM code instead of the name.

.. jupyter-execute:: 

    import pygadm 
    from ipyleaflet import GeoJSON, Map, basemaps

    gdf = pygadm.get_items(admin="FRA")

    # display it in a map 
    data = gdf.__geo_interface__
    style = {"color": "red", "fillOpacity": .4}

    m = Map(basemap=basemaps.Esri.WorldImagery,  zoom=5, center=[46.21, 2.21])
    m.add(GeoJSON(data=gdf.__geo_interface__, style=style))

    m

smaller admin levels
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

One is not bind to only request a country, any level can be accesed using both names and/or GADM code. 

.. jupyter-execute:: 

    import pygadm 
    from ipyleaflet import GeoJSON, Map, basemaps

    gdf = pygadm.get_items(name="Corse-du-Sud")

    # display it in a map 
    data = gdf.__geo_interface__
    style = {"color": "red", "fillOpacity": .4}

    m = Map(basemap=basemaps.Esri.WorldImagery, zoom=8, center=[41.86, 8.97])
    m.add(GeoJSON(data=gdf.__geo_interface__, style=style))

    m

.. warning::

    The names of countries are all unique but not the smaller administrative layer. If you request a small area using name, make sure it's the one you are looking for before running your workflow. If it's not the case, use the :code:`get_names` method to get the admin assosciated names.

content of an admin layer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

using the :code:`content_level` option, one can require smaller administrative layer than the one setup in the name. For example when you request France, by setting up the :code:`content_level` option to 2, the geodataframe will include all the department geometries.

.. jupyter-execute:: 

    import pygadm 
    from ipyleaflet import GeoJSON, Map, basemaps

    gdf = pygadm.get_items(admin="FRA", content_level=2)

    # display it in a map 
    data = gdf.__geo_interface__
    style = {"color": "red", "fillOpacity": .4}

    m = Map(basemap=basemaps.Esri.WorldImagery,  zoom=5, center=[46.21, 2.21])
    m.add(GeoJSON(data=gdf.__geo_interface__, style=style))

    m

find names
----------

To get the available name and GADM code in a administrative layer you can use the :code:`get_names` method with the same parameters. Use then these names in a :code:`get_items` request to get the geometry.

For example to the the name and codes of all the departments in France you can run: 

.. jupyter-execute:: 

    import pygadm

    pygadm.get_names(admin="FRA", content_level=2)

Google Earth engine
-------------------

.. note:: 

    We don't display the results of these cells because the GEE authentification is not working in RDT.

Transform gdf into ``ee.FeatureCollection``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you want to use this lib with GEE, install the "earthengine-api" package in your environment and then run the following code:

.. block-code:: python

    import pygadm
    import geemap
    import ee 
    from ipyleaflet import basemaps, ZoomControl

    ee.Initialize()

    gdf = pygadm.get_items(name="Corse-du-Sud")

    # transform into an ee.FeatureCollection
    fc = ee.FeatureCollection(gdf.__geo_interface__)

    # in this example we use geemap to display the geometry on the map
    # the map is customized to have the same look & feel as the rest of the documentation
    m = geemap.Map(scroll_wheel_zoom=False, center=[41.86, 8.97], zoom=8, basemap=basemaps.Esri.WorldImagery)
    m.clear_controls()
    m.add(ZoomControl())
    m.addLayer(fc, {"color": "red"}, "FRA")

    m

Simplify geometry
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The GADM dataset are describing the geometry of administrative areas in High-resolution. This may overload the authorized importation limits of earthengine which will lead to the following error: 

.. code-block:: console

    EEException: Request payload size exceeds the limit: 10485760 bytes.

Use the :code:`simplify` method from GeoPandas (more informations `here <https://geopandas.org/en/stable/docs/reference/api/geopandas.GeoSeries.simplify.html>`__) to downscale the resolution of the geometries. The following example is needed if you want to work with France: 

.. code-block:: python 

    import pygadm
    import geemap
    import ee 
    from ipyleaflet import basemaps, ZoomControl

    ee.Initialize()

    gdf = pygadm.get_items(name="France")

    # reduce resolution
    gdf.geometry = gdf.geometry.simplify(tolerance=.001)

    # transform into an ee.FeatureCollection
    fc = ee.FeatureCollection(gdf.__geo_interface__)

    # in this example we use geemap to display the geometry on the map
    # the map is customized to have the same look & feel as the rest of the documentation
    m = geemap.Map(scroll_wheel_zoom=False, center=[46.21, 2.21], zoom=5, basemap=basemaps.Esri.WorldImagery)
    m.clear_controls()
    m.add(ZoomControl())
    m.addLayer(fc, {"color": "red"}, "FRA")

    m
